The success of Java resides in several of
its characteristics, for example, Java is
a simple language, since it simplifies most
of the complexity of C++.
Java is based on C and C++ languages.
The Java language has the following general
characteristics:
It's a Platform. Bases on C and C++. Object Oriented: Unlike structured languages
​​(such as the C language), Java defines
classes in order to classify and model the
information of information systems
Objects group encapsulated structures and
contain both their data and the methods (or
functions) that manipulate the data.
It's Simple: For simplicity we mean that Java used
several of the characteristics of languages
​​such as C and C ++, eliminating the
issues considered more complex.
Some characteristics of Java are simple inheritance,
memory management, among many others, that
we'll see throughout the course.
Distributed: Java provides a collection of
classes for use in network applications, which
allow open connections with servers or remote
clients, so that we can have applications
installed on different servers or computers,
and still access those Java components remotely
Multithreading and Secure. Multi-threads: Java allows you to execute
several tasks at once, in which each subprocess
is a lighter process than if you create a
new process from scratch, this concept is
known as threads and one of the biggest advantages
is that many of Java's advanced API tasks
automatically consider the use of threads
for the execution of many of the processes
that are used in real life.
So in various scenarios we will get these
benefits automatically :)
Secure: The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) doesn't allow our application to use resources
outside the allocated space and resources,
in this way, many of the Java applications
are more secure than if the Java code were
executed outside the Java box, the Java Virtual Machine.
Java has platform independence
because creates an intermediate code, which
is known as Bytecode.
This code can be executed on any platform
or operating system.
In this way we have several advantages, both
when creating Java code, and when deploying
or distributing our applications, since we
can choose to create our code in one operating
system and execute it in another.
From here comes the saying "write once - run
everywhere", as we will make the effort to
write the code on a platform, but once created
it is possible to run the application on multiple
platforms, bringing many benefits for the
programmer as well as for companies.
These are just some of the main features of
Java.
As we progress in the course, we'll put
into practice each one of them and you will
be able to realize for yourself the power
of Java.
Java Technology Products
Java is divided into different groups, depending
on the type of solution that is required.
However, all are based on the Java language
and the Java Virtual Machine, so once we have
knowledge of this incredible programming language,
it is possible to go deeper into each of these technologies.
Each version or edition includes its own SDK
(Software Development Kit), which allows programmers
to create, compile and execute the applications
created in each version.
The Java Standard Edition (JSE) is used to
create software for Desktop or Applets applications.
For example, the Netbeans software that we
will use in this course is an example of a
Desktop application.
In this course we will focus precisely on
this standard version and thus establish the
foundations of the SDK, since these are the
basics of Java that will allow us to go deeper
in other courses, both in this same standard
version and in enterprise versions that we
will talk about next.
The Java Enterprise Edition known as Java
EE, or currently as Jakarta EE.
is used to create large-scale, server-side
enterprise applications, and this type of
applications can be accessed from clients
created with the standard version, or any
other type of client, such as Web clients
or Web Services, among others.
The enterprise version of Java was previously
known as J2EE, so if we find documentation
of this version, we already know that it refers
to the enterprise version of Java.
Finally, the JME version is the Micro version
of Java with the aim of creating applications
for mobile phones and devices, as well as
microchips for security cameras, GPS, routers,
or any device with a much lower capacity for
both processing and storage.
It is worth mentioning that the Android system
installed in thousands of cell phones and
mobile devices is based on the Java language
and the Java Virtual Machine, and creates
an extension called Dalvik to be able to execute
Java code on Android.
This makes Java more relevant than ever before,
not only in desktop applications and in the
enterprise environment (in which it is the
number one programming language), but now
also with this growth of Android, the Java
language has popularized on mobile devices
with Android.
In conclusion, we can see that Java is not
only a programming language, but it is a whole
technology that includes desktop applications,
enterprise and mobile applications, so Java
is HUGE and is so exciting to learn this technology.
Besides hundreds or thousands projects, frameworks
and technologies that extend, complement and
enrich Java technology.